- Added the `NBTag` to deal with NBT data:
  - The `NBTag` class is the base class for all NBT tags and provides the basic functionality to serialize and deserialize NBT data from and to a `Buffer` object.
  - The classes `EndNBT`, `ByteNBT`, `ShortNBT`, `IntNBT`, `LongNBT`, `FloatNBT`, `DoubleNBT`, `ByteArrayNBT`, `StringNBT`, `ListNBT`, `CompoundNBT`, `IntArrayNBT`and `LongArrayNBT` were added and correspond to the NBT types described in the [NBT specification](https://wiki.vg/NBT#Specification).
  - NBT tags can be created using the `NBTag.from_object()` method and a schema that describes the NBT tag structure.
    Compound tags are represented as dictionaries, list tags as lists, and primitive tags as their respective Python types.
    The implementation allows to add custom classes to the schema to handle custom NBT tags if they inherit the `:class: NBTagConvertible` class.
  - The `NBTag.to_object()` method can be used to convert an NBT tag back to a Python object. Use include_schema=True to include the schema in the output, and `include_name=True` to include the name of the tag in the output. In that case the output will be a dictionary with a single key that is the name of the tag and the value is the object representation of the tag.
  - The `NBTag.serialize()` can be used to serialize an NBT tag to a new `Buffer` object.
  - The `NBTag.deserialize(buffer)` can be used to deserialize an NBT tag from a `Buffer` object.
  - If the buffer already exists, the `NBTag.write_to(buffer, with_type=True, with_name=True)` method can be used to write the NBT tag to the buffer (and in that case with the type and name in the right format).
  - The `NBTag.read_from(buffer, with_type=True, with_name=True)` method can be used to read an NBT tag from the buffer (and in that case with the type and name in the right format).
  - The `NBTag.value` property can be used to get the value of the NBT tag as a Python object.
