<!-- language-all: lang-python -->

- Changed the way `Serializable` classes are handled:

  Here is how a basic `Serializable` class looks like:

      @final
      @dataclass
      class ToyClass(Serializable):
          """Toy class for testing demonstrating the use of gen_serializable_test on `Serializable`."""


          # Attributes can be of any type
          a: int
          b: str

          # dataclasses.field() can be used to specify additional metadata

          def serialize_to(self, buf: Buffer):
              """Write the object to a buffer."""
              buf.write_varint(self.a)
              buf.write_utf(self.b)

          @classmethod
          def deserialize(cls, buf: Buffer) -> ToyClass:
              """Deserialize the object from a buffer."""
              a = buf.read_varint()
              if a == 0:
                  raise ZeroDivisionError("a must be non-zero")
              b = buf.read_utf()
              return cls(a, b)

          def validate(self) -> None:
              """Validate the object's attributes."""
              if self.a == 0:
                  raise ZeroDivisionError("a must be non-zero")
              if len(self.b) > 10:
                  raise ValueError("b must be less than 10 characters")


  The `Serializable` class must implement the following methods:

  - `serialize_to(buf: Buffer) -> None`: Serializes the object to a buffer.
  - `deserialize(buf: Buffer) -> Serializable`: Deserializes the object from a buffer.
  - `validate() -> None`: Validates the object's attributes, raising an exception if they are invalid.

- Added a test generator for `Serializable` classes:

  The `gen_serializable_test` function generates tests for `Serializable` classes. It takes the following arguments:

  - `context`: The dictionary containing the context in which the generated test class will be placed (e.g. `globals()`).
      > Dictionary updates must reflect in the context. This is the case for `globals()` but implementation-specific for `locals()`.
  - `cls`: The `Serializable` class to generate tests for.
  - `fields`: A list of fields where the test values will be placed.

      > In the example above, the `ToyClass` class has two fields: `a` and `b`.

  - `test_data`: A list of tuples containing either:
    - `((field1_value, field2_value, ...), expected_bytes)`: The values of the fields and the expected serialized bytes. This needs to work both ways, i.e. `cls(field1_value, field2_value, ...) == cls.deserialize(expected_bytes).`
    - `((field1_value, field2_value, ...), exception)`: The values of the fields and the expected exception when validating the object.
    - `(exception, bytes)`: The expected exception when deserializing the bytes and the bytes to deserialize.

  The `gen_serializable_test` function generates a test class with the following tests:

      gen_serializable_test(
          context=globals(),
          cls=ToyClass,
          fields=[("a", int), ("b", str)],
          test_data=[
              ((1, "hello"), b"\x01\x05hello"),
              ((2, "world"), b"\x02\x05world"),
              ((0, "hello"), ZeroDivisionError),
              ((1, "hello world"), ValueError),
              (ZeroDivisionError, b"\x00"),
              (IOError, b"\x01"),
          ],
      )

  The generated test class will have the following tests:

      class TestGenToyClass:
          def test_serialization(self):
              # 2 subtests for the cases 1 and 2

          def test_deserialization(self):
              # 2 subtests for the cases 1 and 2

          def test_validation(self):
              # 2 subtests for the cases 3 and 4

          def test_exceptions(self):
              # 2 subtests for the cases 5 and 6
